# 13-1 About Generative AI

Source: ICT_En_Sec1_T1.pdf, pages 175-176 (book numbering)

=== PAGE 175 ===

176
Information Study
Point!
About Generative AI
13-1
Generative AI performs intellectual tasks on behalf of humans, so using it effectively can streamline your 
workflow.
In the real world, Generative AI is used in various situations, such as generating new ideas, summarizing texts, 
supporting studies, and programming.
Generative AI has learned from vast amounts of information worldwide. It generates natural text by selecting 
“the word most likely to come next” in response to a user’s “Prompt” (instruction).
For example, if you provide the prompt “What is the capital of Egypt?”: The AI selects “Cairo” as the word 
most likely to follow “The capital of Egypt is,” and generates the sentence “The capital of Egypt is Cairo.”
The key point is that the Generative AI does not “know” as a fact that the capital of Egypt is Cairo; it is merely 
selecting the word with the highest probability of following the phrase “The capital of Egypt is.”
Therefore, Generative AI does not always provide the correct answer. Due to its mechanism, it is “certain to 
say incorrect things with some probability.” This is called “Hallucination.”
When using Generative AI, please understand this characteristic and do not trust what the AI says 100%.
Warm Up
There are various Generative AIs in the world, such as ChatGPT, Google Gemini, and Microsoft Copilot. In 
this lesson, we will use Copilot.
First, let’s create a text. Try giving Copilot the following prompt: 
“Write a story about a cat wizard going on an adventure.”
Next, try giving the following prompt: 
“Rewrite it to include a dog companion.”
In this way, simply by speaking to Generative AI in everyday language, you can create and modify text.
Next, try giving the following prompt: 
“Give me a quiz about Egypt. Wait until I answer.”
Generative AI can also generate questions using learned information. You can freely change the format of the 
questions, such as instructing it to wait for the user’s answer, or changing from multiple-choice to open-ended 
questions.
By giving appropriate prompts to Generative AI, you can make use of it for learning.


=== PAGE 176 ===

177
• Give the following prompts to the Generative AI one by one in order:
(1) Give me 5 quiz questions about Egypt (You can ask your school's history teacher for help).
(2) Make them True or False questions.
(3) Display the score after I answer all questions.
• Once you confirm that the quiz has been updated, try changing the quiz topic or answer format, or increasing/
decreasing the number of questions.
• Have someone else try the quiz you created.
Also, let’s ask about history like this: 
“Who built the pyramids of Egypt?”
Try asking further questions based on the Generative AI’s response.
Check search engines like Google to see if the Generative AI’s output is truly correct (You can ask your school's 
history teacher for help).
Exercise
Feel free to experiment with generating quizzes or stories, asking study-related questions, etc.
Try
